<!-- File generated by tutorialj -->

Summary
-------

tutorialj is an annotation-based utility to create tutorials from java code. 

Goal
----

While javadoc provides an effective way of building encyclopedic access to 
java code repositories, it is less adapted to the task of introducing a new user to a 
code base.

The goal of tutorialj is to help creating guided code tours. This is achieved using 
java annotations. Since the source of the tutorials are in java, their syntactic
correctness is easier to enforce, and to maintain when refactoring. By combining 
tutorialj with JUnit annotation, it is also easy to check that the usage examples
also behave as expected.

We do not attempt to be have interoperability or to supersede javadoc. We 
expect that the methods annotated with this tool will be disjoint from those
annotated with javadoc: javadoc targets public api method, while we target usage
examples, which will often be located in src/test and/or private. 

Installation
------------

There are two ways to install:

### Integrate to a gradle script

Simply add the following lines (replacing 2.0.0 by the current version):

```groovy
repositories {
 mavenCentral()
 jcenter()
 maven {
    url "http://www.stat.ubc.ca/~bouchard/maven/"
  }
}

dependencies {
  compile group: 'com.3rdf', name: 'tutorialj', version: '2.0.0'
}

task(tutorialj, dependsOn: ['build','testClasses'], type: JavaExec) {
  main = 'tutorialj.Main'
  classpath {
    configurations.compile
    sourceSets.main.runtimeClasspath
    sourceSets.test.runtimeClasspath
  }
}
```

### Compile using the provided gradle script

- Check out the source ``git clone git@github.com:alexandrebouchard/tutorialj.git``
- Compile using ``gradle installApp``
- Add the jars in  ``build/install/tutorialj/lib/`` to your classpath
- Add ``build/install/tutorialj/bin/`` to your path

Usage
-----

### Creating a basic tutorial

Tutorials are just sequences of nodes. Each node is a javadoc comment, and 
optionally, source code and/or link to javadoc/full
code browser.

To create the first step/node of a tutorial, add the following tag above a 
method or static method:
```java
@Tutorial(startTutorial = "README.md")
```  
The ``startTutorial`` specifies the name of the file where the tutorial will be written to.
Currently we support only one such node per project.

This will display the contents of the javadoc block of comments above
the tag.
To display the contents of other javadoc blocks in the same source file, use
```java
@Tutorial
```
above each desired method. 

The nodes will be displayed in the same order as they appear in the file.

The code for the annotated function is displayed by default. To skip it, use 
```java
@Tutorial(showSource=false)
```
This is rendered as shown below. 

```java
System.out.println("Hello, world!");
```

To show the signature as well, use 
```java
@Tutorial(showSignature = true)
```

```java
public static void methodWithSignature() throws java.lang.Exception
{
    System.out.println("Hello, world!");
}
```

### Generating the tutorial

To generate the tutorial using the gradle method, simply type ``gradle tutorialj``.
To do it using the command line application, use:
```
java -cp [all your dependencies and tutorialj's] tutorialj.Main --sourceFiles [src]
``` 
to output to standard out the tutorial in markdown,
where ``[src]`` is the root src folder (if more than one, separate by ``:``). For example, this page was 
generated using
```bash
java -cp build/install/tutorialj/lib/\* tutorialj.Main --sourceFiles src/main/java/:src/test/java/
```
ran from the repository root. 

### Misc. other features

To create tutorials that span several classes, use:
```
@Tutorial(nextStep = [name of class].class)
```
for example:
```
@Tutorial(nextStep = Tutorial.class)
```


Nodes are traversed recursively as follows, where the method is
first called with the type declaring the ``tutorialStart`` argument

```java
// consume node until a jump is found
LinkedList<TutorialNode> currentQueue = 
  fromNullable(nodesPerTypeName.get(currentType)).or(Lists.<TutorialNode>newLinkedList());
while (!currentQueue.isEmpty())
{
  TutorialNode current = currentQueue.pollFirst();
  tutorialNodesInOrder.add(current);
  if (current.hasJump())
    traverseOrder(current.getJumpTarget());
}
```
<sub>From:[tutorialj.GenerateTutorials](src/main/java//tutorialj/GenerateTutorials.java)</sub>

Links to an html javadoc/full code browser can be 
created via the ``showLink = true`` argument. 

Full source of this tutorial: [tutorialj.Example](src/main/java//tutorialj/Example.java)

